All KIC Reference pages (#1121)
Kong/developer.konghq.com: app/kubernetes-ingress-controller/faq/combining-httproutes.md

---

> title: Combining Services From Different HTTPRoutes

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: Combining Services from different HTTPRoutes
```

description: |
  Reduce the number of Gateway Services generated by {{ site.kic_product_name }} when using HTTPRoutes

breadcrumbs:
  - /kubernetes-ingress-controller/
  - index: kubernetes-ingress-controller
    section: FAQs

content_type: reference
layout: reference

products:
  - kic

works_on:
  - on-prem
  - konnect
---

{{ site.kic_product_name }} can consolidate rules from multiple `HTTPRoute` resources that target the same backend services into a single {{ site.base_gateway }} service.

## Enable the feature

Use the `CombinedServicesFromDifferentHTTPRoutes` feature gate to enable this functionality:

```bash
kubectl set env -n kong deployment/kong-controller \
  CONTROLLER_FEATURE_GATES="CombinedServicesFromDifferentHTTPRoutes=true" \
  -c ingress-controller
```

> You can refer to the [feature gate reference](http://localhost:8888/kubernetes-ingress-controller/reference/feature-gates) to learn more.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can refer to the [feature gate reference](/kubernetes-ingress-controller/reference/feature-gates/) to learn more.
```

> ## What Does `CombinedServicesFromDifferentHTTPRoutes` Do?
> 
> Any rules with same combination of backend services (combination of namespace, name, port and weight in `backendRefs` of rules) in all `HTTPRoute`s within the same namespace will be translated to one {{site.base_gateway}} service.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## What does `CombinedServicesFromDifferentHTTPRoutes` do?

Any rules with same combination of backend services (combination of namespace, name, port, and weight in `backendRefs` of rules) in all `HTTPRoute`s within the same namespace are translated to one {{site.base_gateway}} Service.
```

> ## How is the Translation Done?
> 
> The names of the translated {{site.base_gateway}} service will be changed when the feature is enabled. Instead of generating names from source `HTTPRoute`
> and rules, the {{site.base_gateway}} service names will be generated from the consolidated backends.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## How is the translation done?

The names of the translated {{site.base_gateway}} Service are changed when the feature is enabled. Instead of generating names from source `HTTPRoute`
and rules, the {{site.base_gateway}} Service names are generated from the consolidated backends.
```

> ### Compute Service Name

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Compute Service name
```

> Names of {{site.base_gateway}} services are computed from the namespace, name, port and weight(if specified). The pattern of names is
> `httproute.<namespace>.svc.<backend_ns>.<backend_name>.<backend_port>.[backend_weight]_[next_backends]...` where:
>  - `namespace` is the namespace of the `HTTPRoute`s.
>  - `backend_ns` is the namespace of the first backend service.
>  - `backend_name` is the name of the first backend service.
>  - `backend_port` is the port number of the first backend service.
>  - `backend_weight` is the weight of the first backend service if specified.
>  - `next_backends` are sections computed from other backend services. Backend services are sorted by the namespace and name.
> 
>  In addition, When the computed name from the method above is longer than 512 characters (the limit of service name length in {{site.konnect_short_name}}), the service name is trimmed using the following rules:
> 
> - Only use `backend_ns`, `backend_name`,`backend_port`, `backend_weight`,
> - Append the `_combined.<hash>` to make sure that the name is unique. Where `hash` is the SHA256 digest of the computed service name.
> 
> For example, the following two `HTTPRoute`s with rules pointing to the same backends with the same ports and weights:

Reviewer: ````suggestion
Names of {{site.base_gateway}} Services are computed from the namespace, name, port, and weight (if specified). The pattern of names is:

```
httproute.<namespace>.svc.<backend_ns>.<backend_name>.<backend_port>.[backend_weight]_[next_backends]...
```

Where:
 - `namespace` is the namespace of the `HTTPRoute`s.
 - `backend_ns` is the namespace of the first backend service.
 - `backend_name` is the name of the first backend service.
 - `backend_port` is the port number of the first backend service.
 - `backend_weight` is the weight of the first backend service, if specified.
 - `next_backends` are sections computed from other backend services. Backend services are sorted by the namespace and name.

When the computed name is longer than 512 characters (the limit of Service name length in {{site.konnect_short_name}}), the backend service name is trimmed using the following rules:

- Only use `backend_ns`, `backend_name`,`backend_port`, `backend_weight`,
- Append the `_combined.<hash>` to make sure that the name is unique, where `hash` is the SHA256 digest of the computed service name.

For example, here are two `HTTPRoute`s with rules pointing to the same backends, with the same ports and weights:
````

```yaml
apiVersion: gateway.networking.k8s.io/v1
kind: HTTPRoute
metadata:
  name: httproute-consolidated-1
  namespace: default
spec:
  parentRefs:
  - name: kong
  rules:
  - matches:
    - path:
        type: PathPrefix
        value: /httproute-testing
    backendRefs:
    - name: echo-1
      kind: Service
      port: 80
      weight: 75
    - name: echo-2
      kind: Service
      port: 8080
      weight: 25
---
apiVersion: gateway.networking.k8s.io/v1
kind: HTTPRoute
metadata:
  name: httproute-consolidated-2
  namespace: default
spec:
  parentRefs:
  - name: kong
  rules:
  - matches:
    - path:
        type: PathPrefix
        value: /httproute-testing
    backendRefs:
    - name: echo-1
      kind: Service
      port: 80
      weight: 75
    - name: echo-2
      kind: Service
      port: 8080
      weight: 25
```

> When the feature is disabled (which is the default), the rules in the two `HTTPRoutes` are translated to two distinct {{site.base_gateway}} services:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When the feature is disabled (which is the default), the rules in the two `HTTPRoutes` are translated to two distinct {{site.base_gateway}} Services:
```

`httproute.default.httproute-consolidated-1.0` and `httproute.default.httproute-consolidated-2.0`.

> When the feature is enabled, The rules from the two `HTTPRoute`s `httproute-consolidated-1` and `httproute-consolidated-2` result in a single {{site.base_gateway}} service named `httproute.default.svc.default.echo-1.80.75.default.echo-2.80.25`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When the feature is enabled, the rules from the two `HTTPRoute`s, `httproute-consolidated-1` and `httproute-consolidated-2`, result in a single {{site.base_gateway}} Service named `httproute.default.svc.default.echo-1.80.75.default.echo-2.80.25`.
```
